In this preview, I have the sounds of a gas stove lighting, some eggs being cracked into a bowl, and a smoke alarm going off. The three sounds are in the order that they will be in for the final soundscape but obviously there is a lot else to be inserted between now and then. I’ve tweaked my planned narrative slightly by adding a few things that will go wrong in my dinner hosting prep. I think I will drop some eggs and not have enough which will prompt the grocery run, and I will accidentally burn something when I step away to answer someone at the door which causes the smoke alarm to be set off. I think it’ll add some mild drama to what could otherwise be somewhat dull.

The smoke alarm sound is split up across three tracks so that I could manipulate the right and left ear channels and the volume. I wanted the alarm to seem to come from behind to the right at first, and then louder and more evenly through the right and left ear as the person in the soundscape (me) approaches the alarm to turn it off. I am pretty satisfied with the right/left ear manipulation but I think I’ll lower the volume so it isn’t so deafening; it’s maybe still a bit too loud.

Originally, I was going to have the sound of cracking eggs recorded myself but the sample I collected had quite a lot of background. So for now, I have in place a sound clip from freesound.org but I think I will try to find a way to dampen the background noise in my own recording and use that instead. I think I saw a noise reduction in the Audacity effects menu.

I have made a comprehensive list of sounds in order, a “sound script”, and so over the coming weekend, I plan on collecting all of the recordings that I plan on doing myself so that I can begin to assemble everything in Audacity.
